--- 
layout:  post 
title:   "Extensible Programming with First-Class Cases"
authors: "Billy Bowman" 
date:    2011-12-02 04:15:00 
categories: Bowman Fall2011
--- 
## Abstract

This is a presentation of the paper by Matthias Blume, Umut Acar, and Wonseok
Chae. Their abstract is as follows:

    We present language mechanisms for polymorphic, extensible records and
    their exact dual, polymorphic sums with extensible first-class cases.
    These features make it possible to easily extend existing code with
    new cases. In fact, such extensions do not require any changes to code
    that adheres to a particular programming style. Using that style,
    individual extensions can be written independently and later be
    composed to form larger components. These language mechanisms provide
    a solution to the expression problem.

    We study the proposed mechanisms in the context of an implicitly
    typed, purely functional language PolyR. We give a type system for the
    language and provide rules for a 2-phase transformation: first into an
    explicitly typed λ-calculus with record polymorphism, and finally to
    efficient index-passing code. The first phase eliminates sums and
    cases by taking advantage of the duality with records.

    We implement a version of PolyR extended with imperative features and
    pattern matching - we call this language MLPolyR. Programs in MLPolyR
    require no type annotations - the implementation employs a
    reconstruction algorithm to infer all types. The compiler generates
    machine code (currently for PowerPC) and optimizes the representation
    of sums by eliminating closures generated by the dual construction.
