---
layout:  post
title:   "A Computer Science Perspective on the Foundations of Quantum Computing"
authors: "Amr Sabry"
date:    2024-4-29 16:00:00
categories: Sabry Spring2024
---

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/tLjgS1eFhn8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Time and Location

* **Date:** Monday, April 29
* **Time:** 4:00 PM-5:00 PM
* **Location:** Luddy Hall 4063 (BLIF-4063)

## Abstract

Quantum information processing is believed to revolutionize classical
optimization algorithms, classical search algorithms, and classical learning
theories. Although there is indeed much evidence for such a potentiality, there
are --- to date --- no definitive theoretical or practical demonstrations of any
quantum computational advantage.

Part of the reason for this uncertain state of affairs is that the boundary
between classical and quantum computing is not well-understood. In this talk, we
will explore the foundations of quantum computing and their connections to
classical computing from a variety of semantically motivated perspectives. We
will first review how some of the ingredients of quantum computing (e.g.,
reversibility and the complex numbers) are irrelevant for separating classical
from quantum computing. We will then explore two recently developed
characterizations of quantum computing that are "almost" classical.

Our technical approach is to design computationally universal quantum
programming languages by, as modest as possible, extensions to classical
programming languages. The first approach demonstrates that a computationally
universal quantum programming language emerges from the amalgamation of two
classical languages glued by complementarity. The second approach demonstrates
that a computationally universal quantum programming language emerges from a
classical programming language extended with just a few square roots of certain
key functions. These more subtle perspectives provide some insight at the
possible semantic sources of quantum advantage and may suggest new classes of
applications in which quantum computing could provide an advantage over
classical computing.
