--- 
layout:  post 
title:   "Mags, the C211 autograder"
authors: "Karissa McKelvey" 
date:    2011-01-28 04:15:00 
categories: McKelvey Spring2011
--- 
## Abstract

Mags (in Chez Scheme 8 and ChezWEB) provides a tool that aids in the
evaluation of student scheme assignment submissions for instructors.
The submission files are each embedded in a separate environment in
order to provide sterile and controlled results. Mags extends and
provides an implementation for SRFI 64, an existing open-source
testing framework. This framework is useful in that it allows for the
creation of test-runner objects, which handle the formatting and
output of the test results. The test-runner provided in the auto
grader provides for output to two ports, one for the student and one
for the instructor.

Mags further extends this framework, allowing instructors to define
and use equality tests, useful when testing equality (or
pseudo-equality) for an implementation-specific ADT, for example. Mags
provides functionality to easily collect and organize problem sets,
providing convenience for the instructor to create hierarchies from a
collection of problem sets with existing or user-defined formatting
expressions. Mags also provides functionality for a virtual file
system that overrides the basic Convenience I/O, which can be accessed
and manipulated in order to protect the top-level file system. The
instructor can also define terms deemed 'illegal' or 'flagged', which
is reported when encountered in student code. Our well-documented and
extensible project creates an easy and effective way of grading
assignments for C211 - Introduction to Computer Science, as a
replacement of the old system. In general, it is valuable for Scheme
programming classes, useful for instructors, and extensible by design.

