--- 
layout:  post 
title:   "Well-Typed Languages are Sound"
authors  "Matteo Cimini" 
date:    2016-10-07 04:15:00 
categories: Cimini Fall2016
--- 

# Abstract

I will take the chance to speak about work with Jeremy Siek and Dale Miller (INRIA).

In this talk, I will set forth the idea that "well-typed languages are sound", the idea of
treating language specifications as expressions and that the appropriate
typing discipline over these specifications guarantees the type soundness of the language.

The first contribution is a discipline for organizing and
restricting languages that guarantees the validity of the progress
theorem.  This discipline is not novel but it makes explicit the way
language designers have been organizing a certain class of languages
for long time.  We make the discipline formal and prove that, indeed, it
ensures the validity of the progress theorem for the language at hand.

To be more precise, we represent language specifications as logic programs
and we devise a meta type system over logic programs that enforces the mentioned
organization and discipline. I have then proved that when such specifications
are well-typed, the progress theorem holds for that language.

Next, we offer an analogous methodology and meta type system for
guaranteeing the type preservation lemma.
Ultimately, languages that conform to our meta type systems are
guaranteed to be type sound, hence: well-typed languages are sound.

These theoretical results have been implemented in the
TypeSoundnessCertifier, a tool that takes specifications of
the Abella interactive theorem prover and automatically generates
the full mechanized proof of type soundness for those specifications
that successfully pass our type checkers.

We have applied TypeSoundnessCertifier to a plethora of programming
languages and we have automatically produced the machine-checked
proof of type soundness for over a hundred of languages,
including full fledged languages with recursive types, universal
types, letrec, exceptions, lists and other common types and operators.
